[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Does the ghost have
to have died as a human
at that spot to haunt it?
>>ROSS ALLISON: No.
There's lots of stories,
especially Abraham Lincoln
has a very famous
case where he's
been seen haunting
the White House,
he's been seen haunting
the theater where
he was assassinated,
he's even been
seen in the house
across the street
where he was taken
after he was shot.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALLISON: It can be
definitely startling.
There are some videos
of me screaming.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: Shocked you?
Yeah, I've had situations where
things have been thrown at me,
doors slamming in front of me.
>>NOORY: Well, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
He's the president and founder
of AGHOST, the Advanced Ghost
Hunters of Seattle
Tacoma, Ross Allison
has been investigating the
paranormal for decades.
Ross, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>ALLISON: Well, it's
an honor to be here.
>>NOORY: Your reputation, by
the way, precedes yourself.
People love your work.
Good job.
>>ALLISON: Well, thank you.
It's been a hard journey,
but I've kept up with it,
especially when you really
don't make a lot of money
being a ghost hunter.
It all comes out
of your own pocket.
But I really enjoy doing this.
>>NOORY: How did you
get involved in this?
>>ALLISON: I blame my mother.
I have a mother that
loves ghost stories.
So I grew up
listening to stories,
and just wanted to
know, do people really
experience this stuff?
So it was that curiosity that
really started the spark,
and I just continued on with it.
>>NOORY: She would tell you
these stories as a little boy,
and you'd just grasp them, huh?
>>ALLISON: I did.
I definitely had to
sleep with a nightlight.
>>NOORY: What have you
found with this whole genre
about ghosts?
>>ALLISON: I have found
that there is definitely
some sort of intelligence
when it comes to a haunting,
when you go into a place and
ask questions into the air,
and you play a recording,
and there is a response.
There's something to that.
And it's just
those little things
that just keep driving you
further and further down
the path.
>>NOORY: What is a ghost?
>>ALLISON: Well, that's
a tough question,
because there's a lot
of different beliefs
when it comes to ghosts.
You have your most common
belief that it is the spirit
of somebody that has passed on.
But then when you try to
bring science into it,
you really have to dive into
the technology and the data
and see if there's anything
to validate these experiences.
And that's where my path
has kind of taken me.
I want that data to
validate these experiences.
>>NOORY: Where will
you go to investigate
ghosts and hauntings?
>>ALLISON: Anywhere I'm invited.
>>NOORY: Wherever
you have to go.
OK.
>>ALLISON: I've been
all over the world,
from castles,
churches, hospitals,
to apartment buildings.
>>NOORY: What would you say is
the most profound thing that
has ever happened on a hunt?
>>ALLISON: Oh, gosh.
I would have to say when I was
investigating an old school--
college, university-- and it
was known for a very famous case
called the Exorcist.
And I walked into the room,
and all my equipment went off
at the exact same time.
>>NOORY: Is that
"the" Exorcist story?
>>ALLISON: The
Exorcist case, yes.
>>NOORY: A little
boy from Baltimore--
>>ALLISON: Exactly.
>>NOORY: --ended
up in St. Louis.
>>ALLISON: Yes, I was invited
to the campus to do my lecture.
And when they had
me on the campus,
they let me do a ghost
hunt with the students.
And they took me to the building
where the boy had actually
stayed.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ALLISON: And it was
pretty interesting
because the building
itself, the fourth floor
was completely abandoned.
And I didn't understand why
they didn't utilize the space
because it was huge up there.
And as we walked around
doing our ghost hunt--
>>NOORY: You found out.
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
I found out that they've
had problems up there,
and they are referring
to paranormal problems.
>>NOORY: The little boy
is now a grown adult.
>>ALLISON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Living somewhere.
>>ALLISON: Mm-hmm.
>>NOORY: I guess he doesn't want
anything to do with that story.
>>ALLISON: No.
In fact--
>>NOORY: I don't blame him.
>>ALLISON: He even claims he
doesn't remember a lot of it.
>>NOORY: Well, that's
possible too, right?
>>ALLISON: So when you go into a
room where an exorcism had been
committed, and then you
actually pick up a voice
on your recorder that says--
when you ask, can you tell
me whose room this is?
And it says, F you, it's
mine, that's pretty intense.
>>NOORY: A lot of the exorcists
were doing the cleansing
at the hospital.
It was the Alexian
Brothers Hospital.
Two priests were
involved, right?
>>ALLISON: Right.
>>NOORY: And they're
both deceased now.
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
It's a fascinating story.
It really is.
And then to have the
opportunity to investigate
one of the secret rooms--
because they had moved them
to various different
locations before he ended up
in the hospital for
the last exorcism.
And it was interesting to
be in one of those rooms
where an exorcism
had been performed.
>>NOORY: That's amazing work.
>>ALLISON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And scary too.
>>ALLISON: It can be.
It can be,
definitely, startling.
There are some videos
of me screaming.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: Shocked you?
Yeah, I've had situations where
things have been thrown at me,
doors slamming in front of me.
Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: Have you
ever been hurt?
>>ALLISON: I haven't been hurt.
I'm always very careful--
>>NOORY: Knock on wood.
>>ALLISON: --when I go in.
>>NOORY: After the
exorcism in the hospital,
they sold off all the furniture
that was in the hospital room,
and the people who
ended up buying it,
different families, all reported
strange unusual paranormal
experiences attached
to these objects.
>>ALLISON: Oh
yeah, I believe it.
In fact, I got to
investigate the room
that the boy had stayed in.
And this room was filled
with dead birds and--
>>NOORY: Dead birds?
>>ALLISON: Dead birds.
Yeah, and there was
no doors up there too,
because security had removed all
the doors on the fourth floor
because they have had problems
with students constantly
sneaking up there
to scare each other.
So they had removed
the doors, so the birds
had access to the
whole fourth floor,
but they all chose to
die in this one room.
And I found out that security
actually used to use this room.
They used to store
their bikes there.
And when they'd go to
collect their bikes,
they'd find the chains had
been ripped off the bikes,
the handlebars would
be bent around.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>ALLISON: Yeah, so
there's definitely
some energy attached
to these objects
and even to the places
where it happened.
>>NOORY: And Ross, what
are haunted objects?
>>ALLISON: Well, when you
get into haunted objects,
especially when it comes
to toys are very popular,
you have some sort of
energy attached to it.
This could be--
>>NOORY: Negative energy.
>>ALLISON: It could be negative.
It could be positive as well.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>ALLISON: There's a lot
of situations with toys,
especially with children.
Children can become
very obsessed with a toy
and they find that,
a lot of times,
that obsession, that energy,
can be absorbed by the toy.
Or you have the situation
where dolls can be possessed.
>>NOORY: Like Chucky.
>>ALLISON: Like Chucky, exactly.
Or there's situations where
an object can be cursed,
where somebody intentionally
puts a curse on an object
and passes it on to the victim.
>>NOORY: On your tours that
you have in the Seattle area,
you have literally
written the guide
on the subject of
haunted objects.
Let's take a look at some of
these artifacts from your tour.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ALLISON: All right,
welcome, everybody,
to Spooked in Seattle tours.
I'm Ross Allison,
your tour guide,
and I'll be giving you guys a
tour of our haunted objects,
some of our death
memorabilia back here,
and of course I'll take you to
a few places throughout Seattle
and tell you some of the
spooky, scary ghost stories.
When we talk about
death memorabilia,
we're talking about
embalming tools,
funerals, mourning attire.
So this is Mr. Creepy.
He goes back to
the 1960s, when he
was created by a retired
ventriloquist artist.
And he made this
doll in his likeness
that you can actually see there.
What makes these
dolls really creepy
is they actually use their
real hair on the dolls.
So I brought them
to our old location.
And we had them in a different
glass case at the time.
And I was alone in the store.
I was doing something
in the office when I
heard this thud against glass.
Now, I immediately
thought something
happened in the gift shop.
So I go out and I'm looking
around to see what had fallen
or what that noise
could have been.
And I couldn't find
anything disturbed.
So I start walking around.
And as I'm walking around these
huge tables we used to have,
and I come face
to face with him,
I see that his head is
now turned and leaning up
against the glass.
So I immediately
take a picture of it.
And to my surprise,
when I reviewed
the photo in the photo,
you can see his head
leaning up against the
glass, but in the reflection
of the glass itself, you don't
see the reflection of him,
you see the reflection of him.
A lot of times, when you're
talking about haunted objects,
there's usually
different reasons
why they could be haunted.
With children,
especially with toys,
they put a lot of
their energy into it.
So a lot of that love and
energy, even obsessive energy,
can be put into
these toys and that's
how they create a
spirit of their own.
But then you also
have situations
where spirits are
attracted to dolls
because they do represent
the human figure
and so they will possess
some of these toys.
But then there's also curses.
Sometimes somebody can put a
curse on a toy or an object.
[DISSONANT MUSIC SWELLS]
>>NOORY: I don't know
what's scarier there, Ross,
Mr. Creepy or you in that hat.
[LAUGHTER]
That doll looked really weird.
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
In fact, there is a female
counterpart of that doll.
The gentleman who made it, as I
said, made it in his likeness.
But he also made one
in his wife's likeness.
>>NOORY: Mrs. Creepy?
>>ALLISON: Mrs. Creepy.
And they have been
separated since the day
after they were created.
And I think the reason why he
is seen moving around a lot--
he'll be looking in
different directions,
his eyes will be looking
different directions--
I think he's just
looking for her.
So I have been
trying to find her
so I can bring those
two souls together.
>>NOORY: And is he still
with his wife as well?
Or are they separated too?
>>ALLISON: Well, they
died a long time ago.
>>NOORY: Oh, they did.
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: Let's talk a
little bit about residual
versus intelligent ghosts.
What's the difference?
>>ALLISON: Well, a
residual haunting
is where a memory is just
trapped in the environment,
and it just plays itself out
over and over and over again.
So it doesn't really
interact with the environment
or even the living, where
an intelligent haunting
is something that will
interact with the environment,
will interact with the living.
So when you have equipment
out, it will sometimes
respond to that equipment.
You can ask questions
into the air
and you'll get an
answer to that question.
>>NOORY: You've got a
couple of balls here
and a couple of little
Scrabble pellets.
>>ALLISON: I do.
I brought some of
the basic equipment
that we can use on ghost hunts,
stuff that's not expensive.
So anybody can get out
there and use these.
And the balls are very
popular because they're
easy to be manipulated.
Now, I have ping
pong balls here.
These are glow-in-the-dark
ping pong balls.
And they're very, very light.
So these will sometimes
move around on their own.
And then we have balls
here that actually light up
whenever they're moved.
And those are great
for experiments.
We've set them up down
hallways, and you'll
see them go down the hallway,
and they'll start to light up,
one by one, showing that
there's something moving down
the hallway.
>>NOORY: Have you seen the
lights go on like that?
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah, quite often.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ALLISON: Yeah.
And then we have Scrabble tiles.
Scrabble tiles is
another just simple tool
that you can lay out on a table.
Take a photo of it.
And when you come back,
hopefully the Scrabble tiles
will be moved out.
Sometimes they'll
spell out a message.
A lot of times, people like to
put the Y and the N upwards.
And they'll say, if
there's somebody here,
could you please tip
over one of the letters.
>>NOORY: If it's a
yes, they tip it over.
If it's a no, they tip it over.
>>ALLISON: Exactly.
>>NOORY: And that happens?
>>ALLISON: It does happen.
>>NOORY: That's interesting,
fascinating indeed.
Now, can anybody do their
own type of investigation?
Or do they have to
be a Ross Allison?
>>ALLISON: No, anybody
can be a ghost hunter.
I definitely am
fascinated with the fact
that ghost hunting is
so popular nowadays.
>>NOORY: It is.
It's big-time.
>>ALLISON: Yeah, when I
started ghost hunting,
we were pretty much
still in the closet,
but now you tell people
you're a ghost hunter
and they consider
you a rock star.
But it is one of
the things that--
I love the fact that
it is more accepted.
There's a lot more people
in the field doing this.
But we also have
to be very cautious
that there's not a lot of
training going into this.
So there's a lot of
mistakes being made.
And so I really am
out there trying
to encourage people to
get the training needed.
Because yeah, you
can ghost hunt,
but don't get
involved with clients.
>>NOORY: You have some
tools of the trade
that you bring on some
of these ghost hunts.
Tell us about these things.
>>ALLISON: Now, definitely
one of the things
I always want to
encourage people is video.
Video is always going to be one
of the most important things
you can do during
an investigation.
Photos are too limited.
They don't give you
a lot of information.
>>NOORY: Can I hold that?
>>ALLISON: You sure can.
This is a 4K camera.
So you always want to
record in the highest
quality as possible.
Especially when you
do get evidence,
you want to go back and
review it as much as possible.
So I always encourage people to
get high-quality video cameras.
One of the things, too, so you
aren't always in a situation
where you're missing
out on the opportunity--
because you always see
those on the shows,
where, oh, I saw
something over there,
but the cameras were
never aimed at that area.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALLISON: So we always
encourage our members
to use body cams.
>>NOORY: Like police officers.
>>ALLISON: Exactly.
So at least it may be pointed
in the right direction when
you have that experience.
>>NOORY: That's interesting.
>>ALLISON: So body cams
are very important.
>>NOORY: So it's a backup.
>>ALLISON: It is, definitely.
>>NOORY: Well, look.
>>ALLISON: And that
could have been me.
I was setting
things on the table.
So that shows you
the sensitivity
that just a slight
vibration can set them off.
>>NOORY: What other tools do
you have here that you use?
>>ALLISON: Well,
another fun little thing
is a motion sensor.
So this actually can
pick up different things
from heat or even light.
And it'll go off
like a little alarm.
So it just tells you that
something moved in the area.
And then we also
have EMF detectors,
as you can see, when I get close
to those, how those go off.
So those are simple devices
kind of like the balls.
You can send them
down a hallway,
and you'll actually see that
these will pick up something
as something passes by them.
>>NOORY: What do these
tell you if they go on?
What do you conclude?
>>ALLISON: It tells us
that there is something
happening in the environment.
There is possibly EMF
readings, especially when
you look at devices like this.
There is some sort of
vibration, some sort of motion
is going on.
And those are some of the
things that we're looking for.
Now, unfortunately, there's no
such thing as a ghost meter.
So there's no meter you
can set up in your house
and say, tell me
if there's a ghost.
But what we do as ghost
hunters as we collect
as many devices that help us
read the environment and let us
know if there's changes
in the environment,
changes we can't explain.
>>NOORY: How sensitive
is this equipment?
>>ALLISON: Some of this
is pretty sensitive.
Like the balls, as you've
seen, just playing around
with things on the
table, will go off.
As you can see, when I
reach close, those go off.
But you definitely want the
more sensitive equipment,
but then you're looking
at bigger prices too.
>>NOORY: And you would
basically walk around,
wherever you are,
with the equipment,
waiting for a
reading or something?
>>ALLISON: Some of it,
you'll walk around.
Some of it, you'll just
set down and produce
a controlled experiment.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
not gotten a reading?
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: Is it disappointing?
>>ALLISON: It's
disappointing, but you
have to understand,
with ghost hunting,
it's all about being at the
right place at the right time.
>>NOORY: Now you're building
your own equipment now,
aren't you?
>>ALLISON: We are.
>>NOORY: Tell me about that.
>>ALLISON: I have teamed
up with Chad Goodwin,
and we have actually
putting together
a system in our new docuseries
that we're working on,
called Parasense.
And we're the first to
actually try to document touch.
When people are being
touched by something,
scratched, pushed, we want to
see if we can validate that.
And so we're also the first
to produce equipment that
helps us track the phenomena.
As devices like
this will tell you,
you could see something
move, but it really
doesn't give you the data.
And data logging
is so important.
>>NOORY: You have to have that.
>>ALLISON: Exactly.
If you're going to be
scientific in your research,
you have to have
that information.
So we've actually put
together a SPECTRE system,
which stands for Special
Paranormal Environmental
Computer Tracking
Research Equipment.
>>NOORY: Is that what that is?
>>ALLISON: That is it.
That's one of them.
And what we do is we monitor
an environment, especially
the environment
around a subject.
We'll set up four
of them around them.
And we can actually see when
something comes towards them
and moves away.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: It's very fascinating.
What can a novice expect
with equipment like this?
>>ALLISON: Well, it's going
to be a lot more scientific.
So a lot of people aren't
always looking for the numbers.
I think, right now, most people
are trained by the television
shows to look for--
>>NOORY: There we go again.
>>ALLISON: --things like that.
Yeah.
You look for the excitement
of the instant gratification.
I think that's what
ghost hunting has become,
most days, for people.
They want that
instant gratification
when they go on a ghost hunt.
And the real
research is all about
going over the hours and hours
of data and video and audio.
And that's where
you can actually
have a better understanding
of what is truly happening
in our paranormal world.
>>NOORY: Ross, how will you
use this equipment you're
developing with the scientist?
>>ALLISON: Well, we're
hoping to open people's minds
to have a better understanding
of what's going on out there?
>>NOORY: Are you going
to mass produce them?
>>ALLISON: We are
talking about it, yes.
>>NOORY: So the novice can
purchase it and start testing.
>>ALLISON: Yes,
if they definitely
want to go to that scale, we
definitely want it out there.
We want to be able to
collect as much data
and have a better understanding
of what's going on.
As I said, it's all about
being in the right place
at the right time.
So I can get it out
there as much as I can,
but if we have multiple
teams using it as well,
that's going to give us all a
much better understanding when
we start to collect
the data that we need.
>>NOORY: How expensive is
it to get involved in this?
>>ALLISON: Well,
for some people,
it could be pretty inexpensive.
You'd probably spend about $200
or $300 just to get started.
>>NOORY: That's not bad.
>>ALLISON: But for me,
we're looking at, you know,
probably--
>>NOORY: You're
in the thousands.
>>ALLISON: Yeah,
$30,000, $40,000.
>>NOORY: That's a
lot of equipment.
>>ALLISON: It is.
It is a lot of equipment,
but I'm very serious.
I really want to know
what's going on out there.
>>NOORY: What kind
of strange encounters
have ghost hunters encountered?
>>ALLISON: Oh, gosh, you name
it, pretty much it's happened.
>>NOORY: How about you?
>>ALLISON: Like I said-- for
me, I would say I've had a lot
of physical encounters,
but the one thing--
I'll be honest with you--
I have yet to experience
is an apparition.
>>NOORY: Still.
>>ALLISON: I have not
seen an apparition.
>>NOORY: Do you want to?
>>ALLISON: I do.
Now, I do have a funny
story where I actually
think I might have seen it
where I was investigating
an old brothel and I had one
of my subjects up in the room
where the spirits of the ladies
still get a little active.
And so I had him
staying up in the room.
Now, he didn't want to do it.
He was, like, really--
>>NOORY: He was
uptight about that.
>>ALLISON: Yeah.
He was like, do I have
to spend the night?
And I was like, yes, I need
you to spend the night.
I got cameras on you.
>>NOORY: Not sure I'd
want to do that either.
>>ALLISON: [LAUGHS] So I
got cameras on the guy.
Everything's all set up for
this controlled experiment.
I'm sleeping downstairs.
And I'm just in this
room, sleeping on a couch.
And I can't sleep because
things are going on
throughout the night,
just keeps waking me.
>>NOORY: You could
feel it, right?
>>ALLISON: I could.
I could.
Well, it gets to be about 4
or 5 o'clock in the morning,
and I hear him coming
down the stairs.
And my room actually
has a window in it,
so I can see into the hallway.
And I'm trying to
ignore him because I
know he's going to come
to me and tell me he
wants to go sleep in his car.
So I'm trying to stay
focused on my camera,
going through the photos.
And I see, through
peripheral vision,
somebody walk right
past that window
and go down the next flight
of stairs to the first floor.
>>NOORY: So maybe you
did see an apparition.
>>ALLISON: And that's the thing,
is I went to go check on him
and he was still up in the bed.
>>NOORY: It wasn't him.
>>ALLISON: It wasn't him.
>>NOORY: Who could it have been?
>>ALLISON: And that's the
one time when I just--
I could have looked and
saw a full-on apparition,
and I just thought it was him.
>>NOORY: What about people
who wake up in their bedroom
thinking they see an object
or a person in their bedroom
and then it's gone?
What are they seeing?
>>ALLISON: Well, there's a lot
of different things to that.
There is that common
phenomenon where
people have had those
experiences, especially
when loved ones have passed.
That is a very common
experience where
they'll see the
apparition of their loved
one right at the moment
that they had died,
and they'll appear at
the foot of their bed.
But then there's
also the fact that,
if you want to bring
the science into it,
you do have to be the
devil's advocate and say, OK,
was it just lack of sleep?
Are they still dreaming?
And that's where we try
to bring some validation
to those types of experiences.
>>NOORY: Ross, does the ghost
have to have died, as a human,
at that spot to haunt it?
>>ALLISON: No.
There's lots of stories,
especially Abraham Lincoln
has a very famous
case where he's
been seen haunting
the White House,
he's been seen haunting
the theater where
he was assassinated,
he's even been
seen in the house
across the street
where he was taken
after he was shot.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ALLISON: And
there's even places
where he's been seen where the
dress that Mary was wearing
when he was assassinated
and has his blood on it,
he'll be seen around that dress.
>>NOORY: Didn't he also have
a dream of his body lying
in state at the White House?
>>ALLISON: Yes.
In fact, that's
one of the theories
that he very well could
have been psychic,
that he had a dream
about his assassination
before it happened.
>>NOORY: Now, tell me
about the Dominion tugboat.
What is that?
>>ALLISON: Oh, the Dominion,
it is an old Navy tugboat.
It's one of the
last wooden tugboats
before they moved on
to the steel boats.
And we actually have had the
opportunity to investigate it.
>>NOORY: All right.
Let's look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ALLISON: So we are on
the Dominion tugboat.
And this actually started
out as an old Navy tugboat.
It's one of the
last wooden boats
before they moved on
to the steel boats.
There's been a sighting of
an apparition of a gentleman.
He's been seen in the overalls.
And in fact, one of
the owners, Dave,
he had an experience
where he was down below
and he felt something
go right through him.
And as it went
through him, the image
of the backside of a
gentleman in overalls
just walked right through
him and through the area
and faded away.
So this is the location where
the apparition was experienced,
where Dave felt something
come up behind him
and then, all of a sudden,
the apparition of the back end
of a gentleman appeared,
walking away from him,
and then just faded away.
I know tools have been
moved around here as well,
strange noises are heard.
So we'll see what we get.
If there's anybody
down here with us,
can you give us a sign?
>> Wally, are you here?
Hey, Wally, are you here?
I got wrenches and tattoos,
and I'm also a mechanic.
Want to come talk
about this giant engine
that we're next to?
>>ALLISON: We're
definitely going
to pick up a couple of
different temperatures.
It's very cool coming
down this hall.
>> Yeah.
The boat started moving
quite a bit more.
[LAUGHS]
>>ALLISON: I know.
>> I was just noticing.
I was like, what was that?
>>ALLISON: What was that noise?
Did you hear that?
I'm going to switch
to infrared night shot
so I can see down there.
[ALARM SOUNDING]
>> Uh oh.
Yeah, there's nobody down there.
There's not.
[ALARM STOPS, THEN BEGINS AGAIN]
Twice.
>>ALLISON: Did you scare
yourself hearing the alarm
go off?
>>NOORY: Don't keep
us in suspense, Ross.
Did the ghost,
Wally, ever show up?
>>ALLISON: Well, the odd thing
was is the motion sensor,
this one right here, went
off two times right in a row.
And we can't explain.
>>NOORY: It wasn't picking
up you or your friend.
>>ALLISON: No, it was aimed down
a hallway no one had access to.
In fact, they had
the floor opened up
so you can't walk on that
section of the hallway
because you'd fall
through to the next level.
So something passed through
there and set that off.
>>NOORY: Did Wally
die on that tugboat?
>>ALLISON: No, he did not, but
he did work quite a bit on it
when he worked for
the Foss company.
>>NOORY: Why would an
individual, a spirit,
want to haunt a place
that it worked at?
>>ALLISON: Well, there's
attachment to a person, place,
or thing.
And so, sometimes, these
individuals, these spirits,
are attracted to locations
where they just loved it there.
Maybe they spent a
lot of their free time
there, because it wasn't always
work for Wally, sometimes--
>>NOORY: Are they jovial?
>>ALLISON: --he
just volunteered.
What's that?
>>NOORY: Are they jovial, happy?
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
In some cases, yeah.
>>NOORY: So you've seen
happy ghosts as opposed
to negative entities as well.
>>ALLISON: In fact, it's
mostly neutral or happy.
It's more rare that you'll find
some very negative energies.
>>NOORY: Or a troublesome ghost.
>>ALLISON: Or a
troublesome ghost.
>>NOORY: Well,
now, what are they?
>>ALLISON: Well,
and sometimes people
misunderstand when
they are dealing
with paranormal phenomena.
We are taught to be afraid--
through media, through a lot
of the movies that we watch.
>>NOORY: Through parents.
>>ALLISON: Yeah.
So you think that
they're out to get you.
And a lot of times, they're just
trying to get your attention,
to say, hey, I'm here.
Acknowledge that I'm here.
And I find that, a lot of times,
once you acknowledge it and try
to communicate and have a
better understanding of what's
going on, they may
just have a message
that they want to pass on.
And once you get that message,
the activity completely stops.
>>NOORY: Can you control the
activity of a ghost, Ross?
>>ALLISON: I think, in
some cases, it's possible.
I think, when you open
yourself up to the fact
that you want to communicate
with whatever's there,
to have a better
understanding, I've
had clients set
up rules that say,
if you're going
to be active, you
can be active
around these times,
especially when they're at
work, the place is yours.
Do whatever you want.
>>NOORY: Do they
actually listen?
>>ALLISON: I think
in those cases.
Because they said, a lot
of times, when they set up
those rules and this
agreement on how they want
to live with the spirits,
things have actually
quieted down quite a bit.
>>NOORY: What's the difference
between a spirit that we've
been talking about
and something demonic?
>>ALLISON: Well, when you
get into demonic energy
or labeling demonic
energy, you're
basically relying on
the religious belief.
Now, don't get me wrong.
I believe that there are very
negative energies out there.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>ALLISON: Especially--
>>NOORY: No question about that.
>>ALLISON: Yeah, because
we know that people
can do horrible things
to other people.
And I feel that
energy can easily
be passed on to the
spirit world as well.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ALLISON: But I don't like
to label things demonic, just
because it's negative,
because when you use the term,
demonic, then you're bringing
religion into your research.
And if you're really
trying to be scientific--
>>NOORY: But what
would you call it?
>>ALLISON: I would just
say a negative energy.
>>NOORY: How about evil?
>>ALLISON: I don't like to
use the term, evil, either.
>>NOORY: But there is evil.
>>ALLISON: I definitely
think-- yeah,
you could definitely
experience a lot of that,
but I think a lot of it is--
I really want to be
unbiased in my research.
I really want to
be more scientific.
And when you go that
route, you really
have to go with what
you know and not
with what you think
you know, or your bias,
or your religious beliefs.
>>NOORY: Or back off on terms
and stuff like that too.
>> Exactly.
You can't label everything.
And I know, in this field,
there's a lot of labels
that people like to use.
And when you're really trying
to bring new science into this,
you just have to
go with the basics.
>>NOORY: Do you communicate
with the spirit world often?
>>ALLISON: Oh gosh, yes,
I'm pretty much out there
almost every weekend.
>>NOORY: Do you get a response?
>>ALLISON: No.
One out of 10 cases usually can
provide some sort of evidence
that there could be
something paranormal.
So as I said, it's all about
being at the right place
at the right time.
>>NOORY: But do you think the
spirit is picking up on things
you say even though they
may not be responding to it?
>>ALLISON: I think, in a lot
of cases, it is very possible.
But then, when you're
investigating the paranormal,
you do have to
determine, are you
dealing with something that's
intelligent or are you dealing
with something residual?
And if you're dealing
with something residual,
it's not going to
respond to you.
It's not going to acknowledge
that you're there.
It's just its own little
memory, playing itself
out over and over again.
>>NOORY: In its
own little world.
>>ALLISON: Exactly.
>>NOORY: You know our
friend Joshua P. Warren.
>>ALLISON: Oh yes.
>>NOORY: He's a great
paranormalist and investigator.
He's got his own views on how
to communicate with spirits.
>>JOSHUA WARREN: I think that
there are beings around us that
would love to just show up and
have a conversation with us,
but that's no easier
for them to do
than it is for us to do that.
So there's another way to
communicate with these beings
that is usually more effective.
And it deals with shaping
your daily experience
through synchronicity.
In other words, let's
say you get up one day
and you say, to your deceased
grandmother, grandmother,
I would love to have an
interaction with you today,
and you put that out there,
and then you go about your day.
Maybe you'll walk
past a window, you'll
see some flowers in
the window of a shop,
and it's her favorite flowers.
And then you walk into the
shop, and there's a book there,
and that book has some-- and
there are signs and symbols--
>>NOORY: Or you smell her
perfume or something like that.
>>WARREN: This is
how you usually
are able to tap into that
information of the spirit
realm, because cosmologists
and astrophysicists tell us
that there is no such thing
as past, present, and future.
It's all happening at once.
We're sort of moving through it.
So your grandmother is still
alive somewhere in this plane.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>WARREN: And you
have to open your mind
in terms of how
that communication
forum is going to emerge.
And if you do that,
you will be led
onto a path that gives
you profound communication
with certain entities and
even the universe itself.
>>NOORY: So Ross, how do you
communicate with the spirit
world on your own?
>>ALLISON: Well, like I said,
for me, it's all about trying
to validate these encounters.
So I do believe intent
is very important.
>>NOORY: Do you echo
what Josh just said?
>>ALLISON: I like to believe.
There's a big part
of me that is very
fascinated with a lot of this,
a lot of the theories and ideas
out there.
And I think, yes, I'd like
to believe it's all possible.
So for me, my quest is,
can I validate that?
Can I prove that
to other people?
Is there anything we
can do, through science,
through the equipment,
that we can bring forth--?
>>NOORY: Through
things like this, yeah.
>>ALLISON: --and make your
beliefs more valuable.
>>NOORY: How do you back
up this information?
Do you jot things down?
Do you have a journal?
What do you do?
>>ALLISON: Journaling
is very important.
Journaling is one
of the ways that we
can determine if there's
a pattern to activity.
>>NOORY: And how
would that work?
>>ALLISON: Well,
just writing down
the dates, times what's
happening, is really important.
And also your emotional
status at the time.
>>NOORY: Yours?
>>ALLISON: Your own personal--
>>NOORY: The investigators.
>>ALLISON: Yes, even the
clients at the times,
because you find, a lot
of times, that sometimes,
when you're going through
a stressful situation,
you may be triggering
the phenomenon yourself.
A lot of people don't
understand that.
Sometimes there is
a big theory that we
are producing the phenomena
and aren't aware of it.
>>NOORY: Well, that's
conceivable, isn't it?
>>ALLISON: Exactly.
So if we can journal
our experiences,
this will help us to have a
better understanding of what's
going on out there.
Another thing with
journaling that we
don't seem to
understand is the mind
tends to forget information
after three minutes.
So if you're--
>>NOORY: That fast.
>>ALLISON: Yeah.
So if you're not
journaling right away
after your experiences, you
could lose a lot of details.
>>NOORY: And you go back
and look at it and go,
oh my God, I did this?
I did that?
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
But I also find that journaling
is very important to the fact
that people learn to tell their
experiences better because they
want it to be believable.
They don't want you to
think that they're crazy.
I had this experience.
I want you to believe it.
And in doing so,
you learn to tell
that story better and better.
And so you're not intentionally
trying to lie or manipulate
the situation, but
there's a lot of details
that can be forgotten.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ALLISON: And so are
not even forgotten,
but can be twisted in
telling that story better.
So by having that true raw data
in your journal will help us,
as paranormal
investigators, understand
our client's experience.
It also helps us to try to
debunk the experience as
well because that's one
of the first things you've
got to try and do first.
You don't want to also label
everything as paranormal.
>>NOORY: Well, I have known
you to be a straight shooter.
Has there ever been a case
that was so emotional for you
you couldn't take it?
>>ALLISON: There was a situation
as a case in Washington,
where a grandmother had
shot and killed her family.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>ALLISON: Yeah,
it was a big case.
>>NOORY: Horrible.
>>ALLISON: And what happened--
>>NOORY: How many
people did she kill?
>>ALLISON: If I
remember correctly,
I think four or five people.
This is, gosh, about 12 years
ago, maybe more than that.
But anyways, the case got
a lot of media attention.
And during that time,
shortly after this happened,
the family contacted us and
wanted us to investigate.
Now, for me, this was
while the family's still
in the grieving process.
I've had people contact me
right away after somebody dies,
and I feel the
individuals need time
to grieve first before
you have people come out
and investigate because--
>>NOORY: It would seem to
be unhealthy if you don't.
>>ALLISON: Right, exactly.
And so they told
me that the reason
why their grandmother
did this is they
felt that she might
have been possessed.
And so they said, if you
want to have this opportunity
to investigate this,
you better do it now
because we're
cleaning up the house
and they're going to put
it back on the market.
>>NOORY: Who would
want to buy it?
>>ALLISON: Well,
that's the thing.
It was a rental.
>>NOORY: And you have to
disclose that, don't you?
>>ALLISON: It was a rental.
So yeah.
And in lot of cases, you
don't always have to say that.
But for me, as a
paranormal investigator,
I was really hesitant
to do it, but I also
saw this very small
window of opportunity.
If you want to collect the
data to validate this case,
get in there and do it.
>>NOORY: Would you buy
a house that murders
had been done in it?
>>ALLISON: I don't know if I'd
personally want to live in it.
I'm always-- I don't want to
take my work home with me,
but I definitely would
investigate a place like that.
>>NOORY: If it was going
cheap, would you buy it?
>>ALLISON: Yeah,
that probably makes
it a little more tempting.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: Interesting.
What's next for you, Ross?
>>ALLISON: Next
is we are actually
doing a docuseries, Parasense.
>>NOORY: Good.
>>ALLISON: And we're really
trying to bring forth
the science, the research.
And I think the
fascinating part is
we're doing a whole
new part of research
where touch is involved.
And I think we want to see
if we can validate that.
>>NOORY: What freaks me out
are little spirits of children.
It's very sad to me.
>>ALLISON: It is sad.
>>NOORY: Have you
come across that?
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
In fact, one of my
favorite stories
I wrote in "Haunted Toys"
was about a little girl
that haunts.
And she was attached
to a baby lamb.
She had a little stuffed lamb.
>>NOORY: Oh, that's cute.
>>ALLISON: And she'd carry it
around with her everywhere.
This is another case where--
very obsessed with it.
And she was actually
holding that lamb
when she was struck by a car.
>>NOORY: (SYMPATHETICALLY) Oh.
>>ALLISON: And the
story was that, when
she was hit by the car,
her lamb went flying
and no one was able to find it.
And--
>>NOORY: Off in the
woods or wherever.
>>ALLISON: Right.
The mother really wanted to try
and have her daughter buried
with it because she knew how
much she loved that lamb.
>>NOORY: What a horrible story.
>>ALLISON: And she searched
all over the streets
and couldn't find it anywhere.
Well, they ended up burying
her without the lamb.
But when she got home
after the funeral,
the lamb was sitting
on their porch.
>>NOORY: How did it get there?
>>ALLISON: Don't know.
No one ever claimed
to bringing it to her.
But after she brought the lamb
home and put it in the house,
things started happening
around that lamb.
She'd wake up in the morning
and find the lamb sitting
in front of the TV, on Saturday
mornings, where the little girl
used to love to watch TV.
>>NOORY: You think the
little spirit of the girl
would move the lamb around?
>>ALLISON: Oh yeah.
In fact, she ended up
contacting a ghost hunter
to come in and investigate.
And when they did an EVP session
with the lamb sitting next
to it, they picked up crying.
And it was interesting--
>>NOORY: Crying sounds?
>>ALLISON: Yeah, sounds
of the little girl crying.
And so when they
picked up the lamb,
they even said the lamb
felt a little moist.
Well, that night--
>>NOORY: From tears.
>>ALLISON: Yeah.
That night, as
always, the mother
puts the lamb in
her daughter's bed.
And the mother just
could not sleep.
She was very restless.
And when she went to go
check in her daughter's room,
she saw the lamb there,
and she curled up
on her daughter's bed, and she
was just crying and holding
that lamb, and she looked
over in the doorway
and she saw her daughter
for the first time.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ALLISON: And then her
daughter just faded.
>>NOORY: That's compelling.
>>ALLISON: And she never
saw her daughter since.
And she thinks why her
daughter was crying in
that recording is her
daughter was saying goodbye.
>>NOORY: Ross, how do
people get a hold of you?
>>ALLISON: I always encourage
people to find me on Facebook,
Ross Allison, Ghost Hunter.
Check out AGHOST.org or
SpookedinSeattle.com.
>>NOORY: Thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief," Ross.
>>ALLISON: Thank for having me.
>>NOORY: You're a
great ghost hunter.
And it's an incredible
ability to go out
in the field with equipment
and hunt for ghosts
and actually find them.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]